VirusTotal 

VirusTotal
 is a service that allows anyone to analyze suspicious files, domains, URLs, and IP addresses for malicious content. VirusTotal also offers additional services and tools for enterprise use. This reading focuses on the VirusTotal website, which is available for free and non-commercial use.

It can be used to analyze suspicious files, IP addresses, domains, and URLs to detect cybersecurity threats such as malware. Users can submit and check artifacts, like file hashes or IP addresses, to get VirusTotal reports, which provide additional information on whether an IoC is considered malicious or not, how that IoC is connected or related to other IoCs in the dataset, and more.

A screenshot of the VirusTotal home page.
Here is a breakdown of the reports summary:

A screenshot of a VirusTotal reports summary.
Detection: The Detection tab provides a list of third-party security vendors and their detection verdicts on an IoC. For example, vendors can list their detection verdict as malicious, suspicious, unsafe, and more.

Details: The Details tab provides additional information extracted from a static analysis of the IoC. Information such as different hashes, file types, file sizes, headers, creation time, and first and last submission information can all be found in this tab.

Relations: The Relations tab provides related IoCs that are somehow connected to an artifact, such as contacted URLs, domains, IP addresses, and dropped files if the artifact is an executable.

Behavior: The Behavior tab contains information related to the observed activity and behaviors of an artifact after executing it in a controlled or sandboxed environment. This information includes tactics and techniques detected, network communications, registry and file systems actions, processes, and more.

Community: The Community tab is where members of the VirusTotal community, such as security professionals or researchers, can leave comments and insights about the IoC. 

Vendors’ ratio and community score: The score displayed at the top of the report is the vendors’ ratio. The vendors’ ratio shows how many security vendors have flagged the IoC as malicious overall. Below this score, there is also the community score, based on the inputs of the VirusTotal community. The more detections a file has and the higher its community score is, the more likely that the file is malicious.

Note: Data uploaded to VirusTotal will be publicly shared with the entire VirusTotal community. Be careful of what you submit, and make sure you do not upload personal information. 

Other tools

There are other investigative tools that can be used to analyze IoCs. These tools can also share the data that's uploaded to them to the security community.

Jotti malware scan

Jotti's malware scan
 is a free service that lets you scan suspicious files with several antivirus programs. There are some limitations to the number of files that you can submit. 

Urlscan.io

Urlscan.io
 is a free service that scans and analyzes URLs and provides a detailed report summarizing the URL information.

MalwareBazaar

MalwareBazaar
 is a free repository for malware samples. Malware samples are a great source of threat intelligence that can be used for research purposes. 




# SIEM process overview

Previously, you covered the SIEM process. As a refresher, the process consists of three steps:

Collect and aggregate data: SIEM tools collect event data from various data sources.

Normalize data: Event data that's been collected becomes normalized. Normalization converts data into a standard format so that data is structured in a consistent way and becomes easier to read and search. While data normalization is a common feature in many SIEM tools, it's important to note that SIEM tools vary in their data normalization capabilities.

Analyze data: After the data is collected and normalized, SIEM tools analyze and correlate the data to identify common patterns that indicate unusual activity.

This reading focuses on the first step of this process, the collection and aggregation of data.



